# Select roles that can execute manual judgement stage

| | |
|-|-|
| **Status**     | _**Proposed**, Accepted, Implemented, Obsolete_ |
| **RFC #**      | https://github.com/spinnaker/deck/pull/7636 | https://github.com/spinnaker/orca/pull/3303
| **Author(s)**  | Sanjeev Thatiparthi (@sanopsmx) (https://github.com/sanopsmx)
| **SIG / WG**   | sig-ux

## Overview

Display all the roles the user have in the manual judgment stage.If there are 2 groups(dev,qa)and qa group
 has the permission to deploy.If there is a manual judgment stage before the deploy stage.If there are no groups
 attached to the manual judgment stage, then dev group can continue with the manual judgment stage and get failed
 at the deploy stage as only qa group has the permission to deploy. This is the reason we are displaying all the roles
 of the application. This is a usability feature.

### Goals and Non-Goals

Display authorized groups dropdown list only when the user selects the manual judgment stage.
Display all the groups the user has selected while creating application(permissions) in the authorized groups dropdown.
When the pipeline is executed, disable the manual judgment 'continue/cancel' based on the user role selected in the authorized groups.

opsmxemp1 : ["mail-qa","sra-dev","mail-dev","sra-qa","empdev"]

| Testcase No. | Application Name | Application Roles                               |   Manual Judgment Roles | User      | Result         |
|:------------:|------------------|-------------------------------------------------|------------------------:|-----------|----------------|
| 1            | testmanualjud001 | sra-dev,sra-qa                                  |                 sra-dev | opsmxemp1 | Enable Button  |
| 2            | testmanualjud002 | N.A                                             |                     N.A | opsmxemp1 | Enable Button  |
| 3            | testmanualjud003 | sra-dev,sra-qa                                  |                     N.A | opsmxemp1 | Enable Button  |
| 4            | testmanualjud004 | sra-dev,sra-qa,mail-dev,mail-qa,emp-dev,finance | sra-qa,mail-dev,finance | opsmxemp1 | Enable Button  |
| 5            | testmanualjud005 | sra-dev,mail-qa,operations                      |              operations | opsmxemp1 | Disable Button |

User can opt out of this feature as stated in the testcase 2 & 3.
If authz is not enabled, it will work in the same way.
The above test cases will handle all the test scenarios.
If the role is set in the manual judgment stage, then we check the role both in the application roles and user roles. If yes,
we approve and moves to the downstream stage, if no, then we deny(disable the continue button in the manual judgment stage).
If the pipeline is triggered from command line, then the backend orca code checks the same above mentioned logic.If yes,
we approve and moves to the downstream stage , if no, then we deny(It will be running in the same stage).

## Motivation and Rationale

Only legitimate users can approve the manual judgment stage so that it can be moved to downstream stages.

## Timeline

Already Implemented

## Design

1. Enhanced stage.html to

   Get the roles of the application.
   Display the roles of the application as a list only if the stage is Manual Judgment.

2. Enhanced stage.module.js to

   Fetch the permissions of the application from the gate application url.
   Application permissions has all the roles.
   Populate the list with only the roles of the application with no duplicates.

3.  Enhanced ApplicationReader.ts to

   Fetch the permissions of the application from the gate application url.

4.  Enhanced ManualJudgmentApproval.tsx to

   Fetch the roles of the application, stage and the user during the execution.
   Iterate through each of the user role to check if the role exists in the stage and application.
   If yes/no, enable/disable the continue button.
   Display the instruction that User does not have permissions to continue

5.  Enhanced OperationsController.groovy to

    Get the application roles, stage roles and the user roles.
    Check each of the user roles whether they are contained in the stage and application roles.
    If yes/no, set a isAuthorized flag to true/false in each of the stage. By default, all the stages except Manual Judgment are true.

6.  Enhanced ManualJudgmentStage.groovy to

    Check for the flag in ManualJudgmentStage.groovy whether to execute to the next stage or not.
    If yes/no, continue with the next stages/continues running the same stage.

7.  Enhanced ManualJudgmentStageSpec.groovy to

    Modified the testcases as per the new logic.
