# TOC Meeting Notes (2019)

## 5/28/19
- SC has elected to retain control of minting SIGs
- TOC elections
  - Michael Plump and Eric Zimanyi to be nominated for vacant TOC slots, we need the SC to approve them
- SIGs/TOC sync is this Thursday
  - Want to discuss pushing issue triaging responsibility to the SIGs
  - If the SIGs are receptive, TOC will create a concrete proposal in the community repo for discussion

## 5/14/19
- Ideas to increase usefulness of github issues
  - SIGs take responsible for their slice of the issue
  - Standard label and process for issue management

## 4/30/19
- Suggestion that we consider reorganizing code such that it more clearly fits the model of “core” vs “integration”
  - Recognition that majority of contributions being made to Spinnaker involve an integration with an additional cloud provider or some other 3rd party system.
  - A large portion of these contributions are made to artifacts that also contain core Spinnaker implementations. 
  - Support for CODEOWNERS files.
  - Support for building packages that exclude integrations and their respective dependencies.
  - See examples in orca-integrations-gremlin or orca-integrations-cloudfoundry.
- Reviewer Status
  - Zhiquing Qiu (michaeljqzq) - Approved (3/3)
  - Nanxuan Xu (maybayern1974) - Approved (3/3)
  - Nicolas Cohen (ncknt) - Approved (3/3)
  - Kathryn Lewis (kathrynlewis) - Approved (3/3)
- Approver Status
  - Jammy Louie (jammy-louie) - Approved (3/3)

## 3/19/19
- Change Halyard release cadence
  - No action as of now
  - Propose to TOC / SIG sync; ask major Spinnaker consumers
- Approver Status
  - Mark Vulfson (marchello2000) - Approved (3/3)
- Technical Roadmap
  - Publish roadmap of aggregate major contributors' objectives
  - Follow-up at the next TOC / SIG Sync

## 2/19/19
- Reviewer Rights For:
  - marchello2000 (Mark Vulfson from Netflix)
  - Notes: All approved
- Discord vs Slack
  - Continue with status quo until Slack tells us we cannot invite more members
- Approver removal
  - If the approver leaves the project and is no longer going to be working on, remove them from the approver.
- SIG Lead / TOC meetings
  - Setup a regular meeting with SIG leads & TOC to allow bubble up of decisions and information to the TOC, establish a clear line of communication.


## 1/8/19
- Reviewer rights for:
  - Jervi (sponsors: TOC)
  - Armory (sponsors: ethanfrogers, TOC)
    - imosquera
    - andrewbackes
    - dotdotdotpaul
    - kevinawoo
  - Notes: All approved
- Approver rights for:
  - Clay McCoy (sponsors: jkschneider, TOC)
    - Notes: Approved
- Reviewed GitHub issues, discussed strategies of getting Reviewers more involved in triage effort.
